During the final decades of the Galactic Republic,
a male of the Chiss species was born on the
planet of Csilla. And while Mitth'raw'nuruodo
and his brother Mitth'ras'safis grew up as
mere commoners, they both proved skilled in
their own ways, with Mitth'ras'safis going
into politics and rising to the rank of Syndic,
while Mitth'raw'nuruodo used his tactical
brilliance to join the Chiss Expansionary
Defense Force, quickly reaching the rank of
Force Commander.
Their achievements were noticed by the ruling
families of the government, and so both brothers
were made merit adoptives of the Mitth family,
also known as the 8th ruling family of the
Chiss Ascendancy.
Mitth'raw'nuruodo or Thrawn as he would come
to be known in the core worlds, continued
his impressive rise to power, becoming the
youngest to ever reach the rank of Commander.
His success led the 8th ruling family to make
raise him further in status, becoming trial-born,
meaning he was eligible to become a permanent
member of the family.
During much his time with the Defence Force,
Thrawn commanded the Combat Cruiser Springhawk,
and explored many areas within the Unknown
regions, becoming the first known Chiss to
make contact with humans, when he saved the
light freighter Bargain Hunter from a pirate
attack. Through the use of the trade language
Sy Bisti, Thrawn was able to communicate with
them, befriending them somewhat and learning
Basic from their interactions.
Sometime later, Thrawn received word about
a Vagaari ship near Chiss Space, a species
known for piracy and slavery who had been
pillaging the areas outside Chiss borders
for a decade.
He then ordered the Springhawk to pursue the
vessel, defeating and boarding their ship
to learn more about their kind, while also
discovering a great deal of treasure looted
from various worlds.
Thrawn tried to use this as evidence for the
Chiss to send more ships against the Vagaari,
but was instead chastised for his pre-emptive
strike philosophy, since it went against his
species moral code.
Undeterred and unwilling to allow the Vagaari
to continue raiding unopposed, Thrawn ignored
the wishes of the ruling families, even willing
to risk his status with the 8th ruling family.
He then engaged the enemy again, capturing
one of their Gravity well projectors, so it
might be studied and used against them. But
having lost some of his men during the confrontation,
the event was reported to the ruling families,
who again admonished Thrawn for his actions.
Still unrepentant, and eager to eliminate
the Vagaari threat once and for all, he embraced
an opportunity that presented itself, when
he encountered a convoy of ships from the
trade federation in the unknown regions. Though
they outnumbered and outgunned Thrawn’s
forces, the Chiss commander was able to use
his tactical wisdom to utterly defeat the
enemy ships without suffering even a single
casualty.
Boarding the main ship he soon discovered
they were representatives of Chancellor Palpatine,
leader of the galactic Republic, also known
as Dark Lord Sidious. They told him they were
sent on a mission to destroy the Jedi ship
Outbound Flight, which sought to explore beyond
the galaxy. But this had to be stopped, because
of a group of potential enemies known as the
Far Outsiders, who were amassing forces at
the edge of the galaxy in preparation for
a massive invasion. If these hostile aliens
were to capture the Outbound Flight, they
might learn of the Republic, placing them
in great danger. And so Lord Sidious had decided
the ship must be destroyed.
Thrawn even spoke to the Dark Lord directly,
confirming the story. Sidious was impressed
with Thrawn’s military abilities and so
ordered his men to share their intelligence
about Outbound Flight and the Far Outsiders,
while Thrawn agreed to help stop the ship
before it could leave their space.
At the same time, he used his human ally Car’das
to feign betrayal and lead the Vagaari to
attack Thrawn’s position, even gifting the
enemy some battle droids.
But the Chiss Commander orchestrated events
so that the Vagaari would attack at the same
time Thrawn’s fleet confronted the Outbound
Flight, causing his enemies to attack each
other, and allowing for his forces to slip
in and do massive damage. In addition, the
battle droids Cardas had given to the Vagaari,
turned against them in the midst of battle,
killing the Vagaari leaders onboard their
flagship.
When Thrawn contacted Jedi Master Joris C’boath,
commander of the Outbound Flight, asking him
to surrender, the force user refused, then
using his powers to force choke thrawn.
Defense Force soldiers responded quickly,
reassigning vessels to emit heavy radiation
onto the Jedi’s ship killing Jorus C’boath
and breaking the force choke threatening Thrawn.
And while their quick thinking saved his life,
the event also gave time for the remaining
Vagaari vessels to escape.
They were then visited by Chaf'orm'bintrano
of the Fifth Ruling Family who they suspected
has come to reprimand Thrawn and possibly
confiscate the Outbound Flight’s technology
for himself. And so Thawn’s brother Mitth'ras'safis,
also known by his core name Thrass, flew the
ship away before it could be seized, and thereby
giving Thrawn a bargaining chip he could use
to avoid punishment from the government.
Unfortunately however, the Outbound Flight
was never heard from again, and with the loss
of the ship, Thrawn’s brother Thrass also
disappeared.
Over the next few years, Chancellor Palpatine
contacted his new Chiss ally a number of times,
attempting to enlist his aid.
Thrawn, fed up with the politics of his people,
and eager to work for Palpatine, then decided
to orchestrate his own downfall, continuing
his pre-emtive strikes against Chiss enemies,
until eventually stripped of all rank and
status within the ruling families. Exiled
to a primitive and isolated world in the Unknown
Regions.
Surviving there for a time, he eventually
escaped onboard an Imperial Star Destroyer
that came to the planet pursuing a smuggler
named Booster Terrik. Thrawn used his knowledge
of the terrain and tactical brilliance to
organize a number of attacks against their
encampment, then hiding in a power generator
casing to get onboard their ship.
Yet when he attempted to leave his hiding
place he was captured by the imperials who
were monitoring the area.
Thrawn, obviously outnumbered and without
recourse, quickly surrendered to them, but
avoided punishment by greatly impressing Imperial
Officer Voss Parck, who was stunned that the
former Chiss commander had been capable of
doing so much damage on the planet and infiltrated
their ship all on his own.
And so Parck brought Thrawn back with him
to the former Republic now Empire, presenting
him as a gift to Emperor Palpatine, in the
hopes it would please the dark robbed leader
and make up for their failure to capture booster
Terrik.
Palpatine was pleased to finally meet Thrawn
face to face, and while he publically insulted
him to keep up appearances in the royal court
about the government’s distain for non humans,
in truth he was happy to recruit Thrawn into
the empire, with Parck acting as his trainer
and mentor until beginning his training at
the private Imperial Academy of Carida.
Although he faced constant discrimination
for being nonhuman, he quickly rose through
the ranks, even coming to teach at the Academy
for a time, before heading back out to further
explore the unknown regions. This time with
Imperial support, setting up a military presence
in the area. Thrawn’s ultimate goal, was
to help Palpatine unite the galaxy together,
so they might have the strength to resist
the Far Outsiders threatening the Chiss and
so many others.
And so with this goal in mind, he organized
a vast network of allies, spies and contacts
throughout the Unknown Regions, creating a
territory known as the Empire of the Hand,
ruled by Thrawn. And while he remained loyal
to Emperor Palpatine, considering his territory
as under the umbrella of the larger Galactic
Empire, he administered the region differently,
ruling through consent rather than terror
and granting planets and systems far more
autonomy.
Thrawn’s rise to power also came to the
attention of the Chiss, and while the Ruling
families still saw him with destain, many
others rallied to his cause, increasing the
size and quality of his forces in the area.
After years of dutiful service to the empire,
Thrawn was given command of the Star Destroyer
Vengeance, serving under the dark jedi Inquitor
Jerec. Jerec survived order 66 but was later
captured by the Empire and avoided death by
accepting the dark side.
Working together, Jerec and Thrawn destroyed
the rebellion on Sulon, and executed the force
sensitive Morgan Katarn.
The following year, the Imperial superweapon,
known as the Death Star, was unveiled to the
galaxy following the destruction of Alderaan,
which was known to have deep ties to the Rebel
Alliance.
In response, the Rebels attacked and destroyed
the death star. Made possible by Luke Skywalker,
the powerful force sensitive child of Darth
Vader, raised away from his father on tatooine
under the supervision of Obi Wan Kenobi. Master
Kenobi looked out for the boy from afar, but
when the time came, began his training as
a jedi.
Two weeks later, Thrawn and 9 other Imperial
officers were called into a private meeting
with Emperor Palpatine, and apprised of the
situation. Although Thrawn suggested immediately
attacking the rebel base, Palpatine chose
to wait and ordered them to investigate the
identity of the pilot responsible for the
destruction of the death star.
Several months later, Thrawn, now at the rank
of Senior Captain, was given command of the
task force admonitor and returned to the Unknown
regions where a new warlord named Nuso Esva
was rising in power, conquering his own territory
and raising a mighty fleet. Thrawn originally
attempted to ally himself with Esva but was
rejected, leading to hostilities between them.
The warlord however proved a tactical genius,
equaling Thrawn and proving difficult to defeat.
With Palpatine unable to provide reinforcements,
Thrawn turned to Darth Vader who granted his
request, in exchange for the Chiss captain’s
help in locating a rebel base.
Engaging with the Eastern fleet of Nuso Esva
in the Poln system, the combined forces of
Thrawn and Vader proved victorious.
In the chaos of battle, a group of rebels
on Poln minor managed to escape the area with
a number of stolen supplies. Thrawn was able
to use the list of items taken to create a
profile of where they were going, and was
therefore able to locate the rebel base, fulfilling
his promise to Lord Vader.
After the fighting, he was introduced to a
group of 5 former stroopers who deserted after
one of them killed an imperial officer. They
were now known as the hand of judgement and
impressed Thrawn not only with the fighting
skills but also with the tolerance for other
species. And so rather then turning them over
to the Empire, he hired them to train a new
army known as the 501st Stormtrooper legion
that would include member of many different
species and would operate exclusively within
the Empire of the Hand.
Thrawn’s continued success eventually led
to his promotion to Vice Admiral, then made
grand admiral in a private ceremony on Coruscant.
However his rank was largely kept secret with
the Empire, as only 12 Grand Admirals were
allowed to exist, and all the position were
filled.
Yet despite his favor with the Emperor, Thrawn
did not follow orders blindly, even refusing
a direct order on several occasions, when
he felt the mission was doomed for failure
and would waste resources.
During one such occasion, the Emperor was
outraged and named him a traitor, then assigning
another officer to the mission. However when
the attack proved a failure, the Emperor gained
a new respect for Thrawn’s judgement.
The Chiss Grand Admiral had risen so high
he was even granted the title of Warlord,
but soon found that others within the Imperial
Court did not appreciate his rapid rise to
power. And so many began to plot against him,
hoping to have him exiled from the core.
Palpatine and Thrawn used this an opportunity
and staged the Grand Admiral’s fall from
grace, wherein his allies were demoted and
he was effectively exiled, sent to the unknown
region on a mapping mission. This however
was exactly what Thrawn wanted and allowed
him to return to his work in the Empire of
the Hand.
With fresh imperial resources, the grand admiral
was able to construct a number of Imperial
bases and settlement, using ruthless tactics
to conquer new worlds. Only once did Thrawn
fail in defeating enemy forces and so ordered
the planet’s destruction. Though many civilizations
were destroyed, Thrawn made sure to allow
their art work to survive, having a deep personal
fascination with the subject, using his studies
of different species art to learn about their
culture so he might better understand how
to defeat them in battle.
Thrawn’s forces even began to operate in
Wild Space, but found it difficult to gain
and maintain territory, and so concentrated
primarily on expanding within the unknown
regions.
After successfully quelling an attempted mutiny
and his continued success in conquering new
worlds, Thrawn was recalled to Coruscant where
he was inducted into the Order of the Canted
Circle.
Before returning to the unknown regions, Thrawn
agreed to help Darth Vader on a mission against
the Black Sun criminal cartel. He was then
rewarded by the Dark Lord by being given command
of the Noghri, a species who were saved from
total destruction by the Empire, and so offered
their allegiance in return, becoming private
Imperial commandos used directly by Vader,
Sidious and now Thrawn.
The Chiss Grand Admiral then worked with Vader
again to uncover a rebel base on Derra IV,
which in turn led them to send probe droids
throughout the western reaches, until finding
the main rebel stronghold on Hoth. After the
battle of hoth in 3 aby, Thrawn continued
his work with vader, attacking a rebel space
station in the outer rim.
Although the Empire seemed to be making progress
in their war against the rebellion, they were
forced to go the defensive for a time, when
Grand Admiral Demetrius Zaarin staged a coup
d’etat, attempting to capture palpatine
and take over the empire. However Darth Vader
and Thrawn quickly came to the Emperor’s
rescue, though Zaarin managed to escape. Thrawn
was then assigned to capture the rogue imperial
who was continuing his war against the empire,
sabotaging imperial manufacturing facilities.
Thrawn took the place of Zaarin and became
an official grand admiral, eventually finding
the traitor and seeing him killed.
The Chiss Imperial then returned to the Unknown
Regions where he learned of a rebel attack
on the second death star in the battle of
Endor, learning of the deaths of Darth Vader
and Emperor Palpatine.
Following the Battle of Endor, Thrawn focused
his attention on securing and defending the
Empire of the Hand, while the remnant of the
Palpatine’s government scrambled to defend
against the rebels which soon established
themselves as the New Republic.
Fortunately for Thrawn, the new Republic was
unaware that Demetrius Zaarin had been replaced
as the 12th Grand Admiral, which meant no
one was searching for the Chiss Imperial.
During his time away from galactic events
near the core, Thrawn’s forces battled the
Ssi-ruuvi Imperium, who’d been making advances
into Chiss space.
Meanwhile the Empire which had lost ¾ of
former territories, were now under the command
of Ysanne Isard who kept in contact with Thrawn,
though he did not trust her to rule the Empire.
And as the New Republic continued to win victories,
more and more ships were being transferred
out of Thrawn’s command, to aid in the war
effort.
Despite the chaos in the galaxy, The Grand
Admiral never forgot the real threat waiting
from the far outsiders, and so continued to
work to defend against their impending invasion.
Part of this mission involved recruiting worthy
officers, such as Soontir Fel, a hero of the
Empire turned Rebel agent. Although Isard
wanted to execute the traitor, Thrawn had
him sent to the unknown regions, where he
explained the larger goal and the threat of
the far outsiders.
Fel, seeing the seriousness of the threat
and that Thrawn was a non-oppressive, yet
also highly intelligent ruler, he was swayed
to join the Empire of the Hand.
In 8ABY Thrawn at last defeated he outlaw
Nuso Esva who died in the Battle of Quethold.
And while the Grand Admiral’s efforts were
successful in securing his own territories,
the Empire itself was at the point of collapse.
On Coruscant, Isard had been ousted from power
and the remaining moffs squabbled amongst
themselves.
Thrawn personally took command the Star Destroyed
Chimaera, with Gilad Pellaeon as his first
officer. Some in the ruling council also gave
their support, sending him a small fleet,
but most moffs hoarded their resources and
sent nothing. In addition many that did come
to support Thrawn did so in order to use him
as a puppet.
But Thrawn proved both strategically brilliant
and politically astute, able to slowly gain
the support of a large portion of the Empire,
winning a number of victories against the
New Republic through his campaign in the outer
rim, and even gaining the allegiance of the
influential D’asta family, who held the
largest private military fleet in the galaxy.
Part of Thrawn’s success revolved around
his continuing study and appreciation of art,
which informed his strategic thinking as he
interacted with the various species of the
galaxy. This then led him on one occasion
to Tatooine, where an auction was being held
for a famous Alderaanian painting which was
taken off world before the destruction of
the planet.
However others had also come to bid on the
item, such as Han Solo of the New Republic
and his wife Leia Organa who were on a mission
to retrieve the key code hidden within the
painting. This code gave entry to the Shadowcast
Communications network which the rebels created
years earlier to communicate in secret with
their agents.
After the New Republic successfully won the
auction, Commander Quenton, Thrawn’s representative
on the planet attempted to take it by force.
And so a fight broke out, with the painting
stolen and new republic agents fleeing into
the desert. Eventually Thrawn’s people tracked
down what they are after, but not before Han
and Leia removed the code, then escaping the
planet.
Early on in his campaign, Thrawn sought an
imperial storehouse that once belonged to
palpatine, containing schematics to a cloaking
device and at least 20,000 Spaarti cloning
cylinders. With the cylinders, Thrawn could
rapidly create a clone army for his fleet
in a renewed offensive against the New Republic.
In order to prevent Clone Madness, a disease
in which clone’s were driven to insanity
by prolonged exposure to the force, Thrawn
had beings known as ysalamiri which he’d
discovered many years earlier, learning that
they possessed a natural ability to suppress
the force around them. With many ysalamiri
together in one place, the effects of the
Force could be neutralized for a very large
area.
After a number of victories against the New
Republic, and with his support amongst the
remaining factions of the Empire increasing,
Thrawn found the storehouse he was after on
the planet of Wayland. However what he did
not expect to find was the clone of Joros
C’Baoth, who had used his force powers to
become the ruler of the local population,
often using his abilities to control their
actions directly. The Grand Admiral saw almost
immediately that he was suffering from clone
madness, but felt a powerful jedi could prove
useful to his efforts, and so made a deal
with C’Baoth, requesting the use of his
abilities such as battle meditation, in exchange
for offering to find him Luke skywalker along
with his pregnant sister Leia, whose children
would likely inherit force capabilities. In
this way C’boath could start a new Jedi
Order which he would personally lead and shape.
An offer he could not refuse.
Thrawn immediately began activating Clones
and while normally Clones needed a year to
develop a healthy mental state, the Imperials
were able to produce them within 20 days,
thanks to the ysalamiri which blocked the
Force from hindering their progress.
This increased personnel meant he would soon
have a large army capable of dealing a crippling
blow to the New Republic.
In addition, Thrawn had discovered a new form
of gathering intelligence known as Delta Source.
Audio recording devices scattered throughout
Coruscant, which Palpatine used to spy on
the population and his government officials.
Through Delta Source, the Empire was able
to track down Luke and Leia, sending Noghri
Commandos to capture them who even after several
attempts proved unsuccessful.
Meanwhile, Thrawn next moved on to the problem
of acquiring more ships for his new personnel,
and set about stealing a number of Plasma
Jet Mole Minors from Lando Calrissian, in
order to use their plasma torches to attack
and breach the hull of warships, which they
could then steal for the Empire.
However during the Battle of Sluis Van, the
unexpected presence of Han Solo and Lando
Calrissian aboard the Millennium Falcon disrupted
the Empire’s plans, ultimately defeating
Thrawn. Yet while they suffered a setback,
the new republic suffered heavy casualties
and Thrawn was undeterred, confident they
would be victorious in the end.
With the larger threat of the Far Outsiders,
ever present in his mind, Thrawn continued
to work towards a unified galactic government,
which could be militarized in anticipating
of the coming invasion.
In addition to the remnants of the Empire,
now largely under his control, he possessed
the ability to clone an army, and so was in
need of ships for his new personnel. After
their defeat at Sluis Van, Thrawn ordered
his first officer Gilad Pellaeon to reach
out to the criminal underworld and offer 20%
above market value for any armed ships over
100 thousand tons.
With his numbers now steadily growing, Thrawn
increased his attacks against the new republic,
raiding convoys along major trade routes.
He also sought to destabilize their government
by planting evidence against Supreme Commander
Gial Ackbar, leading to his arrest, on charges
of treason. This then allowed for Ackbar’s
political rival Borsk Fey'lya to take command,
dividing the loyalties of the Defense Fleet.
And while Thrawn was succeeding with many
of his plans, he was still having trouble
capturing Luke and Leia for his temporary
ally, Jedi Master Joruus C'baoth. Starting
to have doubts about the loyalty of the Noghri,
who led his commando units, he personally
went to their homeworld where he discover
that Khabarakh, one of their warriors may
have betrayed the Empire. Khabarakh, having
discovered that Leia was the daughter of Darth
Vader, believed his loyalty must first be
to descendant of their savior, and helped
her come to their planet and try to sway the
Noghri against the Empire.
After the arrest of the traitor, Thrawn left
their world and went to Endor searching for
the Milenium Flacon. While in the system he
met with Mara Jade, who had been captured
by Imperial forces, but used her former rank
as the Emperor’s Hand to get the meeting.
In an attempt to have him remove the bounty
of 20,000 credits, on her friend Talon Karrde,
she told him that they could offer the location
of the legendary Katana Fleet, 200 slave-rigged
Dreadnaughts which would serve him greatly
in the battles ahead.
Thrawn agreed to the deal, but would not leave
it to chance, and so secretly tracked Mara’s
ship when she departed, using her to find
and capture Karrde. Mara Jade was furious
for his betrayal of their agreement, and attacked
thrawn with her force powers. However his
Noghri bodyguard Rukh quickly intervened and
she relented.
Thrawn, then tried to renegotiate their deal,
saying that once they gave him the information
about the fleet, they’d be allowed to go
free. But Mara no longer had any trust left
in the Empire, believing it was not the same
government she once served, and so left to
go find Luke Skywalker, and enlisted his help
in rescuing Karrde.
Although they were able to free him, before
he could reveal the location of the Katana
Fleet, Thrawn had a backup plan, tracking
down a smuggler named Hoffner who also knew
where they could be found. However, Talon
Karrde was now working with the New Republic,
and so both factions learned of the fleet’s
location. Yet it was the empire’s forces
which arrived first, able to capture all but
15 of the ships.
A battle soon erupted over the remaining vessels,
but Thrawn was unable to aid his forces due
to the Jedi Master Joruus C’Boath, who demanded
an immediate audience and used his force powers
to prevent Thrawn from leaving.
As a result the Empire lost the battle and
was forced into retreat. Nevertheless, they
captured the vast majority of the Dreadnaught
fleet, and so Thrawn was now prepared to launch
a final campaign towards victory. Although
confident he would succeed, he also understood
nothing was guaranteed, and so put in place
a number of contingency plans in the event
of his defeat. One such plan was to have a
special clone of himself prepared in a secret
location, who could continue his efforts to
secure the galaxy after his death.
He also scattered a number of sleeper clones
throughout New Republic and Imperial space,
which could be used in the future as a resistance
army against the far outsiders, if both galactic
governments should fall. With his contingencies
in place, Thrawn went on the offensive, capturing
the planet of Ukio and many others.
With Admiral Ackbar having been reinstated
to his position, the New Republic regrouped
and tried to counter-strike against the Empire,
targeting their Shipyards to slow down their
manufacturing capabilities. Meanwhile, Talon
Karrde, was working to create an alliance
of smugglers to aid the New Republic in their
struggle.
Thrawn, now ready to push into the core worlds,
captured Mrisst and laid siege to Coruscant,
placing 22 cloaked asteroids around the planet,
while giving the impression there were many
more, forcing them to keep their planetary
defense shields activated, and preventing
them from leaving the planet.
In order to lift the siege, the New Republic
required a crystal gravfield trap, making
a plan to capture one from an imperial shipyard.
While capturing Xa Fel, Thrawn learned of
an attack against Tangrene, but suspected
it was a misdirect, instead ordering his forces
to the Bilbringi shipyard where the real assault
was occurring.
Although Imperial forces were well positioned
to destroy the enemy fleet, the smuggler’s
alliance led by Talon Karrde soon arrived
and came to the aide of the New Republic.
Nevertheless, Thrawn might have been victorious
in this battle, had it not been for the betrayal
of the Noghri.
After leaving the Noghri homeworld, Leia Organa
had presented evidence that the Empire had
been poisoning their planet, to make them
dependent and keep them subjugated. And so
they pledged themselves to help Leia Organa,
joining Luke and Mara Jade on a mission to
the planet Wayland, where they confronted
Joruus C’boath and killed the mad jedi.
While on board the Chimaera, commanding at
the battle of Bilbringi, Thrawn learned of
all that had occurred on Wayland, but it was
too late, as his Noghri bodyguard Rukh stabbed
him through the chest.
Declaring that the Noghri had been avenged,
Rukh tried to make his way off the ship, but
was killed by Imperial forces. With Thrawn
dead, Pellaeon had no choice but to order
retreat, giving victory to the New Republic.
Although the Empire continued on for a time,
without a strong central ruler like Thrawn
they largely fell to infighting, and by 11ABY
had lost most of the gains achieved by the
Chiss Commander. In 18 ABY, Gilad Pellaeon,
once again went to war with the New Republic
but was defeated, leading to the signing of
a peace treaty the following year.
Meanwhile Thrawn’s clone continued to grow,
while the Empire of the Hand awaited the return
of their leader, having been told that he
would reappear 10 years after his death. However
the clone was involuntarily destroyed by Mara
Jade and Luke Skywalker, when they entered
the facility and activated the defense systems.
The Empire of the Hand meanwhile, attempted
to go forward, honoring the legacy of Thrawn
by continuing to prepare their sector of space
for the invasion of the Far Outsiders. However
with their leader dead, and his clone destroyed,
they soon diminished in power, and disbanded.
And so in 25 ABY, when at last the Far Outsiders,
also known as the Yuzan Vong invaded the galaxy,
they found only a weakened New Republic, and
a shattered Imperial Remnant, quickly able
to overpower their both and bring utter devastation
upon the galaxy.
Many years later in 55 ABY, as a result of
all that had occurred, the Imperial partisan
and polemicist Lenang O'Pali wrote about Thrawn:
"I am baffled by critics who accept Mitth'raw'nuruodo's
account of his discussion with Palpatine about
the Far Outsiders, yet refuse to revise their
opinions about either man. They ignore what
Mitth'raw'nuruodo reported Palpatine believed:
that the weak Republic would be defeated by
the Vong, and had to be reforged into an orderly,
militarized society able to resist them. They
refuse to consider the possibility that the
Empire's apparent brutality and ruthlessness
were necessary parts of preparing for that
terrible war. Why do they refuse to do so?
Because that would lead them to the only logical
conclusion: that Palpatine was right."